cheat sheet for Rest API CRUD operations map to HTTP verbs and SQL operations

Operation	  SQL	      HTTP verb	      Rest web service
Create	        INSERT	      POST/PUT	          POST
Read	        SELECT	      GET	          GET
Update	        UPDATE	      POST/PUT/PATCH	  PUT
Delete	        DELETE	      DELETE	          DELETE

Annotation commonly used in Model layer that from Hibernate or SQL:

@Entity annotation shows that the class is a persistent Java class.
@Id annotation shows that the annotated field is the primary key.
@GeneratedValue annotation is used to specify the generation strategy used for the primary key.
@Column annotation defines the column in the database that maps the annotated field.
@CreationTimestamp annotation is a JPA annotation that automatically updates the todo creation timestamp.
@UpdateTimestamp annotation is a JPA annotation that automatically updates the todo last modified timestamp.

Annotation commonly used in Model layer that from Lombok:
@Data annotation is from project Lombok. It generates the getters and setters for all the fields that we have in the todo class, equals method, and a toString method.
@NoArgsConstructor annotation is from project Lombok and it generates an empty constructor for our Todo class.
@AllArgsConstructor annotation is from project Lombok and it generates a constructor with all the fields that are available in our Todo class.
@Builder annotation is from project Lombok. It makes it possible for us to use the builder pattern with our Todo model.

Concept:
Repository interface pattern
Repository pattern main goal was the abstraction of the database access code. JPA already provides this abstraction. So, there is no need for another layer that provides the same functionality.
There is a lot of change as the initail goal of Repositiory pattern. Nowaday, it is use as:

DAO Pattern
DAO stands for Data Access Object. DAO Design Pattern is used to separate the data persistence logic in a separate layer. This way, the service remains completely in dark about how the low-level operations to access the database is done.



Reference from:
https://www.section.io/engineering-education/spring-boot-crud-api/
https://thorben-janssen.com/implementing-the-repository-pattern-with-jpa-and-hibernate/
